hi I'm Mickey chavarria and this is my
son Michael hi and this is my lovely
wife Cheryl and my other son Julian
hello yo living in jersey I was looking
for a change of scenery so I move my
whole family out to live among the
awesome red rocks of Sedona cool we love
the outdoors but there's one thing we
love to do indoors and that's cook oh
and these are my in-laws they had to
move out here to be close to their
grandkids you know something's changed
but the family recipe stays the same on
this episode I'm going to show you how
to make my great-grandma Pepe's favorite
family recipes meatballs with Sunday
sauce we will explore the similarities
between sedona and tuscany by visiting
one of our famous local wineries i'll
discuss five things to do together as a
family without breaking your budget now
let's get cooking the best thing about
my family is that we are all here in
Sedona enjoying these beautiful meals
together my husband Mickey makes us
incredible chicken pizza leroy he makes
clam sauce Oh escarole and beans and
hatch pizza there's so many recipes that
I can you know gravatt sell you want me
to make a GABA tell you know what that
is Oh putana team a delicious the list
goes on and on line lon the climate's
absolutely gorgeous out here actually
it's very similar to southern Italy it's
like a little bit of heaven here I
couldn't ask for anything better there
are some wonderful organic farms here in
Sedona making meatballs can we have some
ground beef please certainly this is our
extra lean ground beef especially good
for me cause it's got a little bit more
fat to it so it's gonna be a lot more
flavorful and make your meatball is
getting together fresh ingredients make
the most out of the dishes Romano cheese
comes from southern Italy and the
parmesan come from
what I really like is a pin yoli nuts
which is a unique nut that I'm going to
use in the sunday meatball believe it or
not to make the meatballs you need two
pounds of lean ground beef but not too
lean we have herpin yoli not to come
from the pinyon trees here at sedona we
have our garlic and their golden raisins
that great groom up happy used all the
time when she made meatballs I think
Michael just has a knack for cooking
right when he started to walk he was
always up on the counter watching me
chopped it the basil and garlic and he
just taken a liking from it ever since
that's really how he's learned by
watching his grandmother watching his
grandfather and watching his father and
may a little bit make sure gear stick
when your service you don't go around in
a circle I'm very very fortunate because
I have a husband that loves to cook and
a little boy so I don't have to do much
cooking I can just stand by and watch it
all happen guess what time it is now
meatball meatball time block your roll
them in the palm of your hands and this
meatball recipe is simple and easy to do
any eight-year-old and 11 year old could
do this I think the family's obsessed
with hood I just really don't know where
they get it I'm a little concerned about
dinner tonight cuz we're busy today and
I'm thinking I have to feed a lot of
people Oh food who's watching the kids
full she just wants to know do you want
that you could cheat on a proposal to
create for three weeks on in our world
ever go home right no nobody thing is I
mean I worry about the food I do I'm
sorry that's I got that from my mom hot
like your mother is up my grandmother
was known as a marvelous cook my
grandparents would set up a table a huge
long table not only did the family come
but the people in the town came we had
the grandparents living with
we had our uncle's living with us there
was quite a few people living in that
household I'm so grateful for them I
love my family I love cooking for them I
love teaching my grandchildren I want
them to learn the traditions I don't
walk that too
my mother is an incredible woman she
really has been the person that keeps
all of us together come on your seven to
get down oh man crazy Frank please don't
get hurt relax a little the crazy but
come on honey we're gonna have picnics I
do a lot of the cooking okay Bon Appetit
them keep the one you call kid majors
never a dull moment people over his
house all the time hey stop Duchy soda
lips what makes my recipe so special is
that they've been handed down for
hundreds of years to me and now I'm
gonna hand them down to my son Michael
dad hornitos just came out perfectly and
you look at them this is the pain that
we cooked them in you know what we're
gonna do what we're gonna deglaze her
we're gonna take all that good stuff off
the bottom of this pan we're gonna add a
little red sauce in it we're gonna work
as a team to do that then we're gonna
add it back into the red sauce and
that's gonna knock it up a punch all
right you want start ladling lid off
just maybe two scoops all right I'm
gonna stir that around a little bit it's
great hmm okay ready okay let's do it
you know what we just did what we just
treated ourselves you know times are
tough nowadays and people want to make
their money stretch a little farther and
by staying home and preparing really
healthy delicious meals you can do that
this is red gold we're gonna use this
all week long and to make a nice pasta
dishes you know in these times it's very
economical and for 10 bucks we could
probably make six different dishes
that's amazing yes it is let's face it
everybody's busy my husband works long
hours I work part-time the kids are
running here and there I'm always in the
car chauffeuring than baseball games but
I try to make that time three four days
out of the week that we can sit together
and having a delicious meal prepared is
a way that we can bond as a family I
just I love that what I'm trying to
bring to the table here is just some fun
and enjoyment and that's what I think
food should be on everybody's table I
think you should bring some excitement
into the house instead of always on
Sunday it should
oh I knew anybody she must Tsunade
disease or nah I wish go ahead though I
think who was he's gonna
likes of all over each collected a bit
intimidated a timid little